a new report by the United Nations has
established that there are quote
reasonable grounds to believe that rape
and gang rape occurred during the
October 7th Terror attacks led by Hamas
against Israel the UN Mission
interviewed survivors and Witnesses of
the attack and examined 50 hours of
video footage and thousands of
photographs to arrive at this conclusion
the special representative on sexual
violence and conflict said she and a
team of expert experts had found clear
and convincing information about rape
and sexualized torture the report also
said that some claims of rape could not
be verified but there was convincing
information that hostages taken from
Israel were and might still be subjected
to sexual violence during their
captivity the UN Envoy let out her
findings in more detail here's some more
of what she said we also found that
there are reasonable grounds to believe
that conflict related ated sexual
violence including rape and gang rape
occurred during the 7th of October
attacks in at least three locations
namely the Nova Music Festival site and
its surroundings Road 232 and
kibuts and in most of these incidents
victim were first subjected to rape and
then killed and at least two incidents
relate to the rape of women's corpses we
regard to the hostages taken to Gaza
which found clear and convincing
information that sexual violence
including rape sexualized torture cruel
inum and degrading treatment has been
committed against captives and we also
have reasonable grounds to believe that
such violence may still be ongoing
against those still held in
captivity I pause and must add at that I
am of the strong opinion that this
finding does not in any way legitimize f
further violence but actually reinforces
the need for emergencies let's bring in
Christina Lamb she's a chief foreign
correspondent for the Sunday Times and
has spent much of her career covering
the use of rape as a weapon she's the
author of the book our bodies their
Battlefield what war does to women
welcome back to DW Christina now you
yourself went to Israel in the aftermath
of October 7th what do you make of the
un's
findings yeah well I mean the findings
are really similar to what I found which
is that there is a lot of as they said
convincing information that uh there was
sexual violence carried out on October
the 7th um but I think they also found
that it was very hard to find any actual
survivors to speak to so there were
witnesses there were people who had
found been collecting the bodies of
people that were killed and finding them
in positions that suggested that they
had been raped and fighting uh seman on
the body things like that but there was
it was um hard to find anybody who'
actually uh being raped and survived and
would speak about it yeah did you find
that to be the biggest challenge when
you went to cover the aftermath of
October
7 yeah I mean as some having reported an
awful lot on sexual violence and
interviewed people um in many different
countries about it I know that it's
extremely difficult for people to speak
about it and you know I know cases where
it's taken 50 years for people to come
forward and speak so the fact that
people have not um come forward and
spoken doesn't mean that there aren't
survivors but of course there is the
rather Grim possibility that everybody
that happened to was either killed
afterwards or was taken
hostage you write in your book that rape
is the most neglected War crime how big
a factor do you think is the fact that
it's so hard to
document uh yeah it's hard document it's
hard for people to come forward but the
reason that it's the most neglected War
crime is that unfortunately
accountability
is the exception not the rule it's
really hard for people to get justice so
there have been many cases in recent
years where thousands of women have come
forward such as the yides who were taken
by Islamic State and kept as sex slaves
TW uh 10 years ago um girls like the um
chibok girls in Nigeria that were taken
by Boku Haram but again that was just
tip of the iceberg there were tens of
thousands taken in northeastern
Nigeria um the rohinga people in Burma
or Myanmar that were taken from their
Villages and um and raped by Burmese
military or Buddhist
militias um in all of those cases you
know we have huge numbers of testimonies
but not a single person had been brought
to Justice in any of those cases ex set
recently in Germany um for some of the
Idis but it's a very small number but it
is a
start why do you think that is if so
many women have come
forward well I think there's a number of
reasons I mean of course rape anyway is
a crime where it is difficult to get
Justice in my country United Kingdom
only less than 2% of women that reported
rape last year actually saw anybody
charged so imagine in a country where
you've got war going on or the
perpetrators that are people running the
country or running the area uh or or the
people that it's happened to are
refugees or displaced people and don't
have resources so of course it's going
to be much much harder but I think
there's another reason which is that I
every case I found that had been
successfully prosecuted there had always
been a female judge or a female uh
prosecutor so that doesn't seem like
coinci so I think we need to have far
more women judges and I also believe
that unfortunately when conflicts come
to an end and and there are peace talks
that this is often regarded as a side
issue and so people will be brought to
justice for killing and torture um but
not for rape and I believe that that's
partly because there's so few women in
these peace talks and um but that you
know is how it's been if you go back to
nurenberg for example which people often
hold up as you know the great example of
international Justice um nothing was
done about all all of the millions of
women that were raped at the end of the
second world war in Germany and Eastern
Europe um you know there's no mention of
it so it is something that traditionally
has just been sidelined at the end of
conflicts and that needs to change yeah
the report also points at allegations of
conflict related sexual violence against
Palestinians after October 7th does that
surprise you at
all well I mean there have previously
been reports in the Israeli jails um
Palestinian women saying that they've
been sexually assaulted so the this is
again the same kind of report so
unfortunately you know I mean it's very
depressing but every conflict that I
looked at in my book or have reported on
um there seems to be sexual violence I
mean obviously we also saw it again in
Ukraine and it just one of the militias
that I interviewed said to me you know
it's the cheapest weapon it costs less
than a Kalashnikov bullet and sadly if
you want to humiliate your enemy or or
terrorize them or take territory raping
the women and girls is an effective way
of doing
that that was Christina Lamb Chief
foreign correspondent for Britain Sunday
times thank you so much for your time
and your
insights pleasure thank
you